# Chapter 2 Representing and Manipulating Information

## 2.1.6 Introduction to Boolean Algebra
- George Boole (1815-1864) observed that by encoding logic values *TRUE* and *FALSE* as binary values `1` and `0`, he could formulate an algebra that captures the basic principles of logical reasoning.
- Boolean operation `~` corresponds to the logical operation *NOT*, denoted by the symbol `¬`, `¬P` is true when `P` is not true, and vice versa. Correspondingly, `~p` equals 1 when `p` equals 0, and vice versa.
- Boolean operation `&` corresponds to the logical operation *AND*, denoted by the symbol `∧`, `P ∧ Q` holds when both `P` is true and `Q` is true. Correspondingly, `p & q` equals 1 only when p = 1 and q = 1.
- Boolean operation `|` corresponds to the logical operation *OR*, denoted by the symbol `∨`, `P ∨ Q` holds when either `P` is true or `Q` is true. Correspondingly, `p | q` equals 1 when either p = 1 or q = 1. 
- Boolean operation `^` corresponds to the logical operation *EXCLUSIVE-OR*, denoted by the symbol `⊕`, `P ⊕ Q` holds when either `P` is true or `Q` is true, but not both.Correspondingly, `p ^ q` equals 1 when either p = 1 and q = 0, or p = 0 and q = 1.
- Claude Shannon (1916-2001) first made the connection between *Boolean algebra* and digital logic. In his 1937 master’s thesis, he showed that Boolean algebra could be applied to the design and analysis of networks of electromechanical relays.
- The four Boolean operations can be extended to also operate on *bit vectors*, strings of zeros and ones of some fixed length *w*. The operations over bit vectors are defined according to their applications to the matching elements of the arguments.
- One useful application of bit vectors is to represent *finite sets*. We can encode any subset `A ⊆ {0, 1, ..., w-1}` with a bit vector `[a(w−1), ..., a(1), a(0)]`, where a(i) = 1 if and only if i ∈ A. 

## Web Aside DATA:BOOL More on Boolean algebra and Boolean rings
- The Boolean operations `|`, `&`, and `~` operating on bit vectors of length w form a *Boolean algebra*, for any integer w > 0.
- Boolean algebra has many of the same properties as arithmetic over integers, e.g multiplication distributes over addition.
- Boolean operation `&` distributes over `|`, written `a & (b | c) = (a & b) | (a & c)`, boolean operation `|` distributes over `&`: `a | (b & c) = (a | b) & (a | c)`, whereas addition does not distribute over multiplication for integers.
- When we consider operations `^`, `&`, and `~` operating on bit vectors of length w, we get a different mathematical form, known as a *Boolean ring*. 
- Boolean rings have many properties in common with *integer arithmetic*. For example,  every value `x` has an *additive inverse* `-x`, such that `x + -x = 0`.
- A similar property holds for Boolean rings, where `^` is the "addition" operation, but in this case each element is its own additive inverse. That is, `a ^ a = 0`, `a ^ 0 = a` for any value a, where we use 0 here to represent a bit vector of all zeros. 
- With encoding sets, boolean operations `|` and `&` correspond to set union and intersection, respectively, and `~` corresponds to set complement.