# Chapter 2 Representing and Manipulating Information

## 2.1 Information Storage
- Rather than accessing individual bits in memory, most computers use blocks of 8 bits, or *bytes*, as the smallest addressable unit of memory. 
- A machine-level program views memory as a very large array of bytes, referred to as *virtual memory*. Every byte of memory is identified by a unique number, known as its *address*, and the set of all possible addresses is known as the *virtual address space*.
- Various mechanisms are used to allocate and manage the storage for different parts of the program. This management is all performed within the virtual address
space.

## Aside: The evolution of the C programming language
- The first major revision of the original Bell Labs C led to the *ANSI C* standard in 1989, by a group working under the auspices of the American National Standards Institute.
- The International Standards Organization took over responsibility for standardizing the C language, adopting a version that was substantially the same as ANSI C in 1990 and hence is referred to as "ISO C90".
- This same organization (the ISO) sponsored an updating of the language in 1999, yielding "ISO C99". Among other things, this version introduced some new data types and provided support for text strings requiring characters not found in the English language. A more recent standard was approved in 2011, and hence is named "ISO C11" again adding more data types and features.
- The GNU Compiler Collection (gcc) can compile programs according to the conventions of several different versions of the C language, based on different command-line options.